[Music]
blue whales are the largest animals to
have ever existed as long as about three
school buses and as heavy as 15 blue
whales even outsized the dinosaurs the
whales marine habitat contributes to
their exceptional size the ocean
provides more room to grow and
eliminates one of the factors that
usually hinder animal size gravity
gravity limits the size of land animals
to what their skeletons can support the
oceans buoyancy spares marine mammals of
this limitation thereby allowing them to
grow unlike any other animal blue whales
have one of the loudest calls in the
animal kingdom measuring up to 188
decibels their song can be loud enough
to overpower the sounds of jackhammers
and jet engines the whales use their
powerful songs to communicate with each
other oftentimes from long distances
[Music]
these vocalizations which are deep moans
and rhythmic low frequency pulses have
been recorded from over 500 miles away a
blue whales age can be determined by its
earwax about every six months a new
layer of earwax forms inside a whale's
ear canal the wax primarily serves to
protect the ear canal and helps carry
sound waves into the whales inner ear
however this build up of wax layers
called an ear plug can be measured and
used to estimate a whales age much like
counting the Rings in a tree trunk the
average life span of a blue whale is
about 80 to 90 years but the oldest one
found based on its waxy ear plug count
was about one hundred and ten years old
blue whales can eat four tons of food a
day that's more than an African elephant
weighs despite the whales enormous size
their diet primarily consists of tiny
crustaceans called krill the whales use
their pouch like lower jaws to scoop up
swarms of thousands of krill floating in
the water
the whales then push the water out of
their mouths and through baleen bristles
lining their upper jaws the bristles are
thin enough to let water through but
thick enough to catch krill whale baleen
was often used in 19th century fashion
inaccurately referred to as whale bone
whale baleen is instead made of keratin
the same strong flexible material found
in fingernails keratin allowed baleen to
become an ideal material for structuring
clothes such as corsets collars hat
brims and hooped frames in skirts
because of the high commercial value of
baleen and other whale body parts
blue whales were nearly exterminated
today thankfully global bans on whaling
were put in place allowing the species
to slowly rebound
[Music]
[Applause]